More interesting stories out of the last decade or so was, um,
this story that I read about these scholars in Jerusalem
that were connecting the story of Moses and the burning
Bush to the Acacia Bush and the Acacia tree,
which is rich and DMT. And they believe that, you know,
when you're talking about a story that was told through oral
traditions for who knows how many years,
and then written down in ancient Hebrew and then transcribed
and, you know,
and translated to Greek and Latin and all these days,
there's a lot lost in the mix.
And they believe that what that story might have been about
of Moses coming down from Mount Sinai,
with the tablets and having the experience with meeting God in a burning Bush,
that this is in fact was a dine methyl trip to me and experience maybe.
Yeah.
It's a big, maybe I can say that. Um,
if you go to the south of Mexico and Chiapas, there's a tree that grows,
there is a weed called mimosa hostility. Maybe you're familiar with it.
And this is so abundant that it's used to make fence posts.
All the fences on the side of the road are made of most Ostelis,
it's used as firewood to cook meals.
The air smells like DMT because people are using it as fuel all over
the place.
Not a single person that I spoke with was aware that it was psychoactive.
And these are people that are burning it all the time.
Did they get high from it?
Is there like if you were in a tent or something like that, and you were doing,
uh, a hot box sorta scenario, would you get high from it?
I saw a note. Would you,
it may be it's about 2% DMT, so.
You'd probably have to get so sick from coughing.
And yeah, it would be a very, I mean, even just smoking pure crystal DMT,
it can be very difficult for some people.
So my guess not to be like a wet blanket,
but my guess is not really. Um,
and that's a very strong source as strong as maybe there's, uh,
some Acacia is stronger,
but that's certainly comparable and that's something people are using to cook
food all the time and they're not aware that it's psychoactive. So.
So was there a way,
or is there a way for a person living thousands of years ago to somehow or
another extract DMT from something like the Acacia tree?
Um, that's, uh, I actually spent some time thinking about that a while ago.
It would be, first of all,
depends on how you define extraction if it were to, in like an Iowasca sense,
like a T of course. Yes.
But then they would need some sort of enzyme inhibitor to create the Iowasca.
If it were to create, uh, an isolated smokable form, again, you know,
you could just do like an aqueous infusion and then dry that out and maybe smoke
that. But in terms of like a real extraction that would produce crystals of DMT,
I don't know what the non-polar solvent they would be using to extract a
freebase would be like butter or something.
And then how would you get rid of the butter.
The process?
Like if you're going to take a tree that's rich and DMT and extract EMT from it,
what, what do you have to use?
Uh, have you ever done it before? No, I've never done it. Oh, okay. Well, it's,
um,
it's a very generalizable and simple process that applies to almost everything
in chemistry. It's, you know, sometimes it's called an acid base extraction.
Most people that are in the DMT community go,
something they call straight to base. And the, you know,
the idea is that the side chain of the DMT molecule contains a basic nitrogen
that if it's protonated in an acidic solution,
then it's water soluble. And if it's deprotonated,
then it's only soluble in a non-polar solvent.
So what you do is you just de protonate the nitrogen with a base
potassium, hydroxide, or sodium hydroxide typically,
and then treat that aqueous basic solution with a non-polar solvent,
like NAFTA and isolate the NAFTA,
dry it out, and you have your material. And that applies to everything.
That's not a DMT specific process,
but that's what people do everything with the basic nitrogen. Now.
What's the earliest history of extraction.
Do we will, you know,
the first wave of DMT use in the United States was all synthetic. In fact,
DMT was discovered synthetically before it was ever found in nature.
The same is true of five MEO DMT how'd. They do that.
There was a Canadian chemist named Richard Hellmuth, Mansky, who,
um, I believe was looking at different alkaloids in strawberry plants.
And he was synthesizing references for these potential strawberry alkaloids and
made DMT.
So he didn't know what he had made other than a potential natural product found
in strawberries. And, um,
and then it wasn't until Sarah much later conducted self experiments with
injected DMT that people became fully aware of its psychoactivity.
And then people started finding it in plants. I mean, the 1950s were like, uh,
an early sixties were of course,
a fascinating time in psychedelic research because you have these convergences
of these amazing ideas. First, you have the discovery of serotonin,
which is like, you know, we take this for granted.
Now it's in television commercials, but this was of course,
something that no one knew about.
And suddenly they're finding this in all kinds of different animals.
Initially it was in the salivary glands of squid and, um, in different animals.
And then they're finding it in the human intestine.
Then they're also finding that all of these plants,
the people worshiped in various indigenous societies also contain
serotonin like molecules.
Then they discover LSD and find that that's maybe the most potent known
pharmacological agent at that time.
And it binds to serotonin receptors.
It activates a serotonin type response in isolated tissue.
So there's like this weird triple convergence of information,
potent amazing compound LSD is discovered.
Serotonin is discovered in all these different organisms and there's a kind of
pharmacological convergence between the two of them.
And then you have all these people worshiping serotonin molecules.
So there was a lot of enthusiasm at that time to figure all of this
out.
So in terms of history, so we're talking to like somewhere in the 1950s,
they started extracting TMT the use of it orally dates back far
longer than that because of use of Mao inhibitors and creating Iowasca.
But in terms of the first extraction,
we can kind of plan to smoke.
Yeah. It might've been, even later, it might've been in the.
Eighties. Okay.
So the idea that people thousands of years ago
were able to do something along those lines is probably,
probably not accurate because they're talking about a burning Bush.
That's why it's appealing to people, right?
The idea of Moses D do you think that maybe the understanding of sin
synthesis from the, you know,
synthesizing this from these scholars,
maybe they don't have enough of an understanding of chemistry?
Well, what would be really interesting is to do an experiment,
to see what were the materials that were available,
how would this have been done?
Would you have to use butter as your non-polar solvent?
How well would that work?
What would your butter preparation be done when you put it?
Would you take it rectally then? Is that how it would work? I mean,
you have to kind of, what would your base have been?
Well, I think they were talking about it being something from, I mean, burning,
right. A burning Bush.
Maybe it's just one of those things that sort of gets conflated, right?
Because you have people today that are very aware that people smoke DMT and have
these incredibly intense religious psychedelic experiences.
And then maybe they looked at the Acacia Bush and said, oh, the Acacia bushes,
rich and DMT, that's probably where the Moses story came.
Right. Well, what's really interesting is, you know,
DMT has never been found in the human brain,
even though Rick Strassman says that it has been.
So a lot of people are constantly assigning altered states of consciousness to
DMT, but we can have these states without DMT. I mean,
maybe it's never been found in the human brain,
but also there's ethical and experimental issues with sampling fluid from a
living humans brain. Right.
And it has, they have founded in living rats. This is fairly recently,
this is the Cottonwood research foundation. That's their, their,
their attempt is to try to prove that the pineal gland is a source
for DMT. We know the DMT exists in the human body.
We know that the liver produces it and we know that the lungs produce it.
We're not totally aware of whether or not there's anecdotal evidence that points
to the pineal gland.
Based on the rat idea and based on the presence of certain enzymes,
that could be responsible for it. But even if it is even if it is then what,
there's still a whole question of, how is it released? How is it distributed?
What receptors does it activate?
And is it even necessary as an explanation for altered states of consciousness?
Because there are other things in the brain other than DMT,
DMT has never even been found in the room, but there are other things, you know,
you have endogenous proteins that bind to the Kappa opioid receptor,
the same receptor that, um, is responsible for the effect of salvia, um,
things like that. They create responsible. I mean,
even carbon dioxide itself can induce a pretty strong
altered state of consciousness. Right.
Which is why people like those psychedelic breathing exercises they're
sort of, is it like hypoxic? Is that what it is?
What are they doing when they have those, um, the, what is it called?
There's a type of breathing exercise that induces psychedelic states
holotropic.
Holiday.
Breathwork. Yeah. And that is the idea behind that, right?
It increases the amount of carbon dioxide in your blood.
I haven't seen a mechanistic explanation. Hm.
Yeah, I think that was, but it would.
It would make sense in an early LSD psychotherapy,
one of the things that they would do before giving someone else to use it would
give them something called carbogen,
which was a gas that can paint carbon dioxide.
And they would look at their response to the carbon dioxide inhalation.
And if it induced a panic response, they would say,
maybe you're not psychologically ready for this LSD experience.
So that was, you're talking about a test. I mean, that was a very primitive,
early test that was used by psychiatrists to see if people were,
had the psychological fortitude to withstand the experience.